1920:
WOMEN GET
THE VOTE
by Sam Roberts

Women who led the suffragette movement and
fought for the right to vote

In 1776, Abigail Adams warned the Founding
Fathers to "remember the ladies." Or, she warned,
"We are determined to foment a rebellion. We will
not hold ourselves bound by any laws in which we
have no voice or representation."
That summer, the Declaration of Independence
was passed. It said all men are created equal. But it
did not say anything about women's equality. It
took another 144 years before in 1920, the 19th
Amendment was passed. The 19th Amendment
gave women the right to vote in every state. This
amendment said the right to vote cannot be denied
because of gender, and it was a long time coming.

“We are
determined to
foment a
rebellion. We
will not hold
ourselves bound
by any laws in
which we have
no voice or
representation.”

“WOMANIFESTO”
In the mid 1800’s, the movement for women’s rights gained momentum.
Women met at a women’s rights convention in Seneca Falls, New York.

There, Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote a
"Womanifesto," which was patterned on
the Declaration of Independence. It
demanded equal voting rights, also
known as universal suffrage. This
shocked even Stanton’s supporters, who
were more focused on specific rights like
equal pay. "I saw clearly," Stanton said,
"that the power to make the laws was the
right through which all other rights could
be secured." Others helped Stanton fight
for women to be able to vote. It wasn’t
easy. Women fighting for the vote
experienced hardship, but they
persevered.

This flyer was used by suffragists in 1919
to help gain support for the Nineteenth
Amendment. The map it depicts shows the
different levels of suffrage held by women
in different states.

WYOMING IS FIRST
Women staged demonstrations and pressed their case state by state. In
1869, the Wyoming Territory gave women the vote. This likely
occurred because there were very few women residing there. Hence,
there was little danger that women could force their will on the many
men that lived there. But this did add fuel to the movement for
women’s suffrage.
In the 1870s, a constitutional amendment was introduced in Congress
supporting women as voters. After years, in 1887, the Senate voted
against it. Women had not gained the right to vote nationally, so
women across the country organized in protest. They protested each
year and sent requests to Congress for a suffrage amendment. It forced
Congress to keep talking about women’s suffrage. Yet laws were not

passed requiring all women be given the
vote. The women’s voting movement was
steadily gaining support. More women
were graduating and working. Many
Americans began asking: Why couldn't
women vote? But numerous people were
against it too.

Suffrage advocates threw the very first
White House picket protest. For two and a
half years, six days a week, they held up
signs saying, “How long must women wait
for liberty?” and “Mr. President, what will
you do for woman suffrage?”

In 1918, after many protests by suffragists,
President Woodrow Wilson decided to
support the amendment. He introduced
new efforts to help the country pass the amendment. Both houses of
Congress voted to change the Constitution, which then meant states
had to approve. 35 of the required 36 states approved quickly, leaving
the last vote to Tennessee in 1920. The vote was tied until Harry Burn,
the youngest member, switched sides. Women celebrated.

GRADUAL CHANGE
In 1920, women across America had the right to vote in a presidential
election. But newly enfranchised women voted in much smaller
numbers than men. Change came slowly. In 1972, Congress passed an
Equal Rights Amendment that made it law to treat women and men
equally. This amendment failed, though, after being approved by only
35 of the necessary 38 states. By 1980, however, women surpassed men
for the first time in turnout for a presidential election. In fact, by 2024, 49
women had been governors, 151 women were members of the Congress,
and the first woman was serving as vice president of the United States.
Today, though, women continue to be paid less than men in many jobs.
This means that women's rights organizations remain a powerful force
for change that fight for the rights of women.

END

